Section 14. State personnel board - state personnel director. (1) There is hereby created a state personnel board to consist of five members, three of whom shall be appointed by the governor with the consent of the senate, and two of whom shall be elected by persons certified to classes and positions in the state personnel system in the manner prescribed by law. Each member appointed or elected prior to January 1, 2013, shall serve for a term of five years. Each member appointed or elected on or after January 1, 2013, shall serve for a term of three years. No member shall serve more than two terms of office, regardless of whether a term is a full term or a partial term filling a vacancy. Each member of the board shall be a qualified elector of the state, but shall not be otherwise an officer or employee of the state or of any state employee organization, and shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed by law. (2) (a) Two of the appointed members of the state personnel board serve at the pleasure of the governor. Both elected members of the board and the appointed member specified in paragraph (b) of this subsection (2) may be removed by the governor for willful misconduct in office, willful failure or inability to perform his or her duties, final conviction of a felony or of any other offense involving moral turpitude, or by reason of permanent disability interfering with the performance of his or her duties, which removal shall be subject to judicial review. Any vacancy in office shall be filled in the same manner as the selection of the person vacating the office, and for the unexpired term. (b) The member of the board who is appointed for a term commencing on July 1, 2013, and the successors to that position do not serve at the pleasure of the governor. (3) The state personnel board shall adopt, and may from time to time amend or repeal, rules to implement the provisions of this section and sections 13 and 15 of this article, as amended, and laws enacted pursuant thereto, including but not limited to rules concerning standardization of positions, determination of grades of positions, standards of efficient and competent service, grievance procedures, appeals from actions by appointing authorities, and conduct of hearings by hearing officers where authorized by law. (4) There is hereby created the department of personnel, which shall be one of the principal departments of the executive department, the head of which shall be the state personnel director, who shall be appointed under qualifications established by law. The state personnel director shall be responsible for the administration of the personnel system of the state under this constitution and laws enacted pursuant thereto and the rules adopted thereunder by the state personnel board. (5) Adequate appropriations shall be made to carry out the purposes of this section and section 13 of this article.